From Hansel minutes.com. It's Hansel
minutes. Oh, weekly discussion with
web developer and technologists. Scott
Hanselman. This is Lawrence Ryan announcing
show number three, 10 recorded
live Thursday, March 15, 2012.
Support for Hansel minutes is
provided by Tellerik a rad
controls, the most comprehensive suite
of components for windows forms
and asp.net web applications online@wwwdottlerik.com.
In this episode of the
startup series, Scott talks with
Rob walling about purchasing small
companies or online applications and
revitalizing them. Hi, this is
Scott Hanselman, and this is
another episode of Hansel minutes
and I'm doing the startup
series. As I discovered. Interesting
new startups. It's not necessarily
a regular thing, but here's
two in a row. We're
talking to Rob walling who
has an interesting startup story
because he has acquired some
code that well, maybe, maybe
I wouldn't have acquired. I
don't know, Rob, how's it
going? It's going well, thanks
for having me The product
that was already out there.
You acquired some data. Tell
me about what you, what
you got. Yeah, so the
product is called a hit
tail and it was built
in, I think in 2005,
I think it either went
live in late 2005 or
2006 and shockingly enough, it
was written in classic ASP.
I don't know why they
didn't do.net, you know? Cause
it was, I mean that
we were at dotnet two.
Oh, by then three, two
to five anyways. Yeah. So
they, they wrote a classic
HP and I've been a
customer of it for several
years. It's essentially a, it's
an application that gives you
suggestions for keywords that you
should target if you do
search engine optimization. And so
I've been a customer for
several years and it started
having a lot of downtime
due to hardware problems. The
code is actually has been
quite solid, but they were
having servers that were failing
and, and such. So in
2011 they had like a
five day outage at one
point. And so I basically
got in touch with the
former owner and, and acquired
the product and we closed
late August of 2011. You
know, it was written in
classic ASP. I didn't not
until I got in touch
with her, I, I should've
looked. I mean, everything has
the ASP extension. I had
just never paid attention. You
know, when you use a
software as a service app,
I don't tend to look
at the extension of things.
And I had no idea
if it was PHP or,
or yeah. asp.net or anything
Just never thought about it.
Never consciously came to the
forefront. Yeah. Yeah. Most apps
that I use. I don't,
I mean, I don't know
about most people, but I
don't even as a developer.
I mean, I've been writing.net
since, since 2002 and classic
ASP before then. I don't
sometimes I'll look, if I'm
curious, if something's particularly slick,
I'll say, Oh, is this
a Microsoft thing? You know,
is it written in stuff
I work in because I
can be really proud of
it, but not, you know,
not for, for most apps.
I think I just go
about, go about doing it
without asking. I ask them
what the written, I, I
wrote a blog post last
week about what I called
dark matter developers and talking
about the developers that we
don't see on the blogs.
And they don't go to
conferences and stuff. And a
lot of people understood where
I was coming from, but
an reasonably large group of
people felt they were kind
of offended because I was
implying that people who were
on the blogs and presumably
people like myself. So I
think I was, there was
some ego that was associated
with that post imply that
we're, you know, we're moving
the web forward while you
guys kind of sit in
the background, work on classic
ASP and cobalt and stuff
like that. So then a
large amount of people kind
of came out of the
darkness and said, you know,
we're getting work done. We're
doing really useful stuff. I'm
working on, you know, code
that might be 20 or
30 years old. But you
know, you just can't, you
can't beat an RPG program
on an ASMR 400 when
it comes to like raw
productivity even now. So I
thought it was interesting that
a number of people were
like, can you just because
you can't see us doesn't
mean we're not getting a
lot at work done. And
I, I realized that posts
may have come off that
way. So I don't want
to sound like classic ASP.
I'm like, I'm looking down
on it because not everyone
knows there's perfectly good work
being done right now and.net
one and two. But at
the same time, I do
remember doing classic ASP more
than 10 years ago. I
think even 15 years ago,
when you saw that, did
you, when you're, you're, you're
in the, you're in the
process, you're having the conversation,
did it, did it give
you pause at all? Did
you look down your nose
at this classic ASP and
maybe not thinking about not
acquiring it? It did give
me pause. And the biggest,
the biggest reason was, is
not even looking down my
nose at it. It was
more of a, can I
go back to that development
environment? Can I go back
to not being able to
step through debug and do
response to that rights and
having weekly type variables and
just, just all the stuff
that comes along with that.
And I, I just remember
the transition from classic ASP
to.net as I made it
back in 2001, 2002 and
how good that felt. And
I kept, I don't even,
I didn't even really remember
classic ASB. I haven't touched
it since then. It's been
10 years. And so all
I remembered it was kind
of dark, dark memories in
my head of, of being
frustrated and not being able
to debug as well as
I wanted. And so it
did give me some pause,
but there was, there's so
much value in this product
that I was going to
acquire, that I knew. I
knew a, that I'd be
able to get over that,
you know, and I, I
deal with it and write
the code and be, I
am going to wind up
hiring someone part time to
help me out with it.
So I won't be, it's
not like I'm going to
be coding a classic 40
hours a week for the
next five years. Right. I'm,
I'm actually, you know, I
have outs where I don't
have to do that. So
when you, when you purchase
something, when you acquire a
product, you know, there's, there's
the perceived value of this
product. And then there's this
kind of imaginary pie chart
that represents all of the
intellectual property that makes up
that product. Is this thing,
like half code and half
data, or what does that
pie chart look like? Like
how much of this is
legacy code and versus how
much of this is just
really interesting data that's in
a database somewhere. Because I
think if a lot of
it was data, I would
feel more comfortable about older
code, Right? In terms of
the value of actually paying
for this And also feeling
like I wouldn't be mess,
like, like, let's say it
was 90% data and 10%
code, and it represented a
couple of thousand lines of
code since it's classic ASP,
I would feel very comfortable
rewriting it in, in PHP
or reading, writing, and an
asp.net web pages. Right. I
see. Yeah, there is a
tremendous, there's, there's more than
a billion rows in the
database, SQL server, 2005 database,
and it's about 300 gigs
of data. And so that
contains a lot of, of
the kind of intelligence, you
know, and, and a lot
of the legacy of the
app and a lot of
the value of actually acquiring
it. There are, I would
estimate maybe I don't think
there are 10,000 lines somewhere
in the five to 10,000
lines of code range. And
there's, there's quite a bit
of JavaScript. There's a lot
of hand coded JavaScript because
there wasn't, there was no
jQuery back then. And so
there's Ajax in there. That's
been just hand coded from
scratch. And then there's, you
know, ton of ASP. I
think that one of the
things that, that made me
realize that I should acquire
the product is that this
code has been running. And
for the last three years,
it's been running essentially without
technical maintenance at all, because
the original developers left in
2008, they moved on to
other projects. And so the
former owners nontechnical, and so
there was no database re-indexing,
there were no code changes.
It was pretty much just
running and it was running
solid. The app actually does
a lot of real time.
It takes a lot of
real time data from websites,
right? It's almost like Google
analytics where you install a
little snippet of JavaScript on
your website as a customer.
And then every time you
get a hit from a
search engine, it pings back
to the main server and
it stores it in, in
the Hidell database. So it's
not a trivial app. There's
actually a lot of volume.
There can be 20, 30
database inserts per second at
peak times. And this thing
ran without modification and without
maintenance for three years. So
that was actually, even though
it's old code, that was
a, you know, kind of
a, a reason for me
to think about how solid
this old code was, because
it has run for so
many years and it has
been debugged. So I think
there's a lot of value
in that. So how does
the code and the way
the code was written relate
to the fact that the
database is so big and
the database is apparently well-designed
and perhaps organized enough that
it's doing it, you know,
appropriate indexing and it didn't
require database checks and things
like that. That sounds like
you're saying SQL certain I'm
brainstorming here. I'm pushing a
little bit, but it sounds
like you're saying SQL server
2005 is really good. How
does that make the code
really good? Yeah. I guess
all I'm saying is the
code is efficient and the
code, it doesn't have any
major bugs like it, they
worked all of that out
in the early days. And
for the fact that the
code to continue to run
like that you're right. It
is, it probably is more
of a SQL server thing,
but, but just that it
has a lot of kinks
worked out. And so I
could have rewritten, I mean,
rewriting his tail. I was
either going to do it
myself or, you know, get
some help and do it
if I wasn't able to
acquire it. Cause I really
liked the idea. It would,
it would take, you know,
four to six months to
do it full time, but
I knew that you'd have
to go through all the
headaches and all the, the
trials and tribulations that they
went and went through in
the early days to make
this a good product and
not have to go through
those again, The, the database
that, that it went down
for five days. So it
went great for three years
and everything was great. And
you said, this is really
a really valuable piece of
intellectual property here. And then
it went down for five
days. When did that five
days happen? And how does
that not erode your confidence
in a previous three years,
Right? Yeah. What was actually
happening? It was going down
probably every couple of months,
every two to three months.
And it was hardware failures.
So disc drives would fail,
power supplies would fail that
kind of stuff. It was
not, it was never to
my knowledge. And I talked
to the previous developers, it
was never the code or
the database that was failing.
So that was actually the
first goal when I acquired
his tail was to get
it off the old hardware.
Cause it was on generic,
you know, not Dell, not
HP, just generic white box
servers. And they had, I
think they'd been purchased used
on eBay in 2006. I
mean, it was a really
low budget operation. And so
obviously these, these hard drives
failing is just, you know,
naturally going to happen. So
yeah, the five day failure
came in, I think, may
of 2011. And then I
wound up con contacting him
in June and, and getting
it in, in August. And
were they, were they like
excited about you calling them
and they've forgotten about the
product or was this a
product that was sitting in
the background doing a lot
of work and, and making
money for them? It was,
she was, so it was
down to a single owner
and she was happy to
discuss the acquisition because she
knew that the product had,
it has so much intelligence
in it and it has
a lot of potential and
it had done a lot
of good things for a
lot of people as they've
used it over the years
and she thought failing and
that painter to do it,
but she didn't have the
time or the resources to
kind of re rehab it
basically. I mean, it's kinda
like that old broken down
house that has so much
potential needs, a new coat
of paint and some, maybe
some new electrical. And she,
they really did. They do
and did love the product
and they're still fans of
it, you know? And so
the fact that someone was
willing to come along and
talk about revitalizing it and
they know most of the
customers, I'm never, you know,
a hundred or 200 customers
when I acquired it. And
they know a lot of
them by first name. So
they were all excited that,
that it would actually have
a second life essentially. What
have you done to it?
Since I assume you've been
sitting with the hardware, I
mean, when someone purchase a
fixer upper and they're excited
about it, it does breathe
new energy into the, into
the house, into the product.
What have you done in
that, in those, in that
way? Yeah, over the past,
it's been about six months,
six and a half months
since I acquired it. And
I had really three, three
goals. The first priority was
to get it stable, meaning
get it on the new
hardware. And then second was
to basically redesign the app,
not from a backend stance,
but the front end was
very dated. And so I
just wanted a new marketing
site that would help with
basically help people have more
confidence in the application. Cause
it looked like something from,
you know, a ten-year-old app.
And then the third thing
was to, to get the
marketing started. And so the
really that first priority of
stabilizing it involved, moving it
from the old hardware to
a new colo facility, I'm
actually hosting with orcs web
or RCS, web Virginia, and
I'm on one of their
cloud servers. And it was
a big, that was quite
a big deal to move
it because it's not, you
know, it's not a trivial
task to move a 300
gig database. You can't just
send that across the internet,
especially when there's, it's real
time. There's there's between five
and 30 database inserts happening
every second. And so I
had to actually hire the
DBA to help me out
because I wasn't able to,
I just didn't even really
know how to attack that
problem. And so he helped
setting up replication between two
instances and it was so
it was sending data over
the wire to Virginia. And
then we had a, we
had a USP, we went
with the old postal service
and got a U S
you know, three, 500 gig
USB drive and put the
database on it and then
shipped it overnight and got
the big book of the
data over to the data
center that way. And then
we pulled an all nighter
to kind of get it
all synced up. Isn't that
funny? How ups always talk
about that? How ups has
more bandwidth than even the
fastest internet connection, if you
can overnight, you know, half
a terabyte, then that's pretty
darn good band with, if
you look at it like
per second megabytes per second.
So you refresh all the
hardware, you refresh the marketing
site. Is there an API
that people call to talk
to this? And is it
an old style one? Are
there new techniques around Jason
or jQuery that someone might
use in order to access
this data? Well, so the
data at this point, there
is no API. It, I
have one in the works
I've been building it, it
a rest API using the.net
components. I just even remember,
it's funny, it's WCF, sorry
that we CF has all
the, you know, the stuff
in it to do a
really nice rest API. And
so we're, we're about halfway
through that to get to
the data. I mean, it's
really a reporting app. It's
more like, think of it
like Google analytics, where you
install the code on your
site, it puts it into
a database and then you
log into our web portal
and you can see all
the keywords that people have
hit your site with. And
then we actually have an
algorithm that gives you suggestions
in terms that you are
not targeting, that you should
be targeting if you want
more traffic and yeah. And
you can export everything to
CSV. I mean, that's really
the, that's the other, the,
you know, you said ups
has ultimate bandwidth. It's like
CSV is the ultimate API.
Cause then you can do
whatever you want with it.
When you start approaching someone
about a product like this,
how do you even know
in your mind where the
right number is? How do
you know you didn't overpay
or underpay? Okay. Yeah, that's
a really good question. There,
there are ranges kind of
best practice ranges. I've acquired
a number of products over
the past seven or eight
years. And in essence, depending
on how, how long of
a history and earnings history,
the product has, how much
money it's making per month
and how much maintenance it
requires the range. It typically
starts around 12 months of
monthly net profit. So like
a one year, one year's
worth. But if the product
is in bad shape or
it needs a lot of
work or it needs a
lot of monthly maintenance, then
it might be four to
six months of monthly net
profit. And if it's a
really good product, that's been
mentioned in a lot of,
of, you know, print magazines,
or like this one had
been mentioned, a tech crunch
and wall street journal. And
I mean, it was a
big, big app back in
the day when it launched,
then it has more clout.
It just has more inbound
links. It has more SEO
traffic. It has more kind
of more to it than
being some, some trivial app.
It can sell for upwards
of 24, maybe even up
to 30 months of net
profit. So it's kind of
your range that you go
into, you can do it
with, which is very different
from, you know, dot com,
valuations. A lot of people,
if you approach them about
their product, they feel like,
well, Facebook sells for, you
know, it's valued at X
dollars per free user that
they have. And that's, that's
not really how it works
with these smaller apps. It
Mo is much more based
on the, kind of the
earnings and earnings multiple. So
what, what is the difference?
You're saying that, that someone
might have a product with
10,000 users and they might
be thinking it's like Facebook
and think that it's a
per user evaluation. Well, the
real thing that they should
be using is they've made
a thousand dollars a month
for the last 12 months,
and this is how much
it's important. Yeah. I w
I mean, I'll say that
it's kind of like what's
generally accepted versus what is
it's like, what does everyone
use versus what someone thinks
their app is worth particularly?
So that's kind of confusing
there. There's kind of this
whole, this whole group of
people that are buying and
selling these apps and websites,
it's, there's a group on
Flippa flippa.com. There's a group
on site point. They multiples
is how multiples are, how
these things are typically valued,
but that doesn't mean everyone
has to adhere to that,
right? If someone does have
10,000 users and they say,
well, my app, I'm not
going to sell it for
less than 50 or a
hundred grand, then that's up
to them. It's just, they
have to find a buyer
who's willing to do that.
And if they go with
folks who typically buy apps,
they're probably not going to
find someone to do that.
You know, it really is
a difference between buying small,
smaller, profit generating apps and
going with the.com valuations. If
you start an app that
is going to be a
social network and it is
going to be wildly successful,
and you have 10,000 people
already, then maybe you could
convince someone that it's going
to have massive growth, but
an app like hit tail
or other apps that bought,
they just, aren't going to,
they're going to scale up
that quickly. And so they,
I would just, I would
never value them based on
free users or anything. I
mean, it's pretty, there's kind
of a, a formula that,
that you can rely on
for that. So at that
point, that means that you
were kind of at the,
at the mercy of the
person who owns it, if
they are delusional or confused,
or simply uneducated about the
way things that work, you
might just not be, you
might reach an impasse very
quickly in the discussion. Yup.
Yup. And it's better to
reach that early, to be
honest, before you'd spend a
lot of time on it
or before you make them
spend a lot of time,
you know, pulling a lot
of data out because frankly,
before, before you make an
offer, you want to get
a buck, you know, maybe
10 to 12 data points
from them. You want to
know how much it's making
the expenses, how much time
they spend per month, how,
how much it costs them
to acquire a customer. I
mean, there's kind of some
basic things you need to
figure out in order to
figure out what, what this
thing is worth, what your,
an offer for it. And
so before you make them
go do all that legwork,
I often will start chatting
them up about here's how
it, you know, have you
heard about this? Here's how
sites are typically valued. If
this isn't going to work,
then that's fine, but let's
not waste your time or,
or mine, frankly. It seems
like there's a delicate thing,
though. It is delicate. I
mean, you don't want to
say you're, you're the buyer.
You want to give them
money and they want to
get as much money as
they can. And you want
to pay as little as
you can. And you're the
one educating them on what
they needed to, to make
their price. Unless, cause if
you're buying products all the
time and this is the
first one they've ever sold,
they're going to be inherently
distrustful of you. Yep. That's
true. That's true. And so
that, frankly, my first several
emails, if I'm going to
be acquiring something like this
tends to be, to build
trust. And that's the goal
is to say, look, I
I've done this before. Here's
my blog here, here I
am on LinkedIn. Like I'm
a real person. I've written
a book. I've I own
these other apps. Like I
really try to be transparent
to say I'm accountable because
I'm a real person. I'm
not just some email address.
It's kind of emailing you
out of the blue and
that you're you're right. It
is a balancing act of
trying to, to build trust
quickly and show that I'm,
you know, that I'm a
legitimate buyer and I'm not
going to try to screw
around. In addition, I'm also
trying to get pressed in
gain trust in them as
a seller, because some sellers
may be a little, they
may exaggerate their numbers, you
know, and you need to
get proof of their numbers.
You need to get screenshots
or screen tasks of their
actual traffic and their, and
their revenue and such. And
so I'm trying to gauge
the seller and typically really
enjoy having a, like a
video Skype session with them.
Because when you can look
someone in the eye, it
just, it, it means a
lot in terms of, of
knowing, you know? Hmm. So
email is not the place
where you do this kind
of work. Like you may
email, you may set up
some meetings and things like
that, but really you do
need to see someone before
you give them a lot
of money. A lot of
money. Yeah, yeah. Emails where
we start setting it up.
And then typically the getting
to know you and the
trust building is on just
a single Skype session where
we'll just chat about stuff.
I don't like to, I
mean, we don't negotiate over
Skype because it's just, people
make time to think. And
it's much easier to do
actual dollar negotiations and make
the initial offer via email
and then just go back
and forth via email. I
found it's better to do
with things in writing as
well. So there's a track
record of it. And that
means it takes a long
time. You know, you don't,
I mean, it took me
six, six or eight weeks
to, from the time I
made the first offer on
this until we were able
to close the deal, because
there's just a lot of
back and forth about not
only price, but just other
terms of who's going to
pay the legal fees. Cause
there's, you know, we're going
to have to have a
contract written up to close
this. Who's gonna go clear
out the data center, the
old data center, you know,
where they have their servers.
Cause someone has to go
through to throw stuff in
the dumpster, that kind of
stuff. So a lot of
different terms come up and
it's good to have those
good to have an email
trail of, of what we
discussed about. So it sounds
like everything that could be
talked about gets talked about,
I never would've thought about
who pays for the person
who cleans up their old
data center. I mean, surely
that can't be you, but
I wouldn't have even thought
about it. But I think
your point is that if
you don't write it down,
it will become a point
of contention later. That's right.
Yep. And, and I wouldn't
have thought about it either
to be honest, but she
brought it up. So Out
of curiosity, who did end
up paying for the dumpster
at the data center? She
actually, the data center was
in New York and she lived
in New York. So she volunteered
to go by and do
it. I volunteered to pay
for legal expenses and she
went and did it herself
and, and FedEx me the
discs, you know, there are
a bunch of CD ROMs
with install disks. And then
yeah, she did check the
servers. I made sure that
she hit the hard drives
with hammers and broke them
up because all the data,
you know, you don't want
that getting out, but she
checked everything in the dumpster.
Wow. It sounds like this
is like a lot, like
buying a house and you
really have to hope that
the seller of the house
is a good person. And
you're not convinced that your
skeletons in the closet, That
that is true. No matter
how much you put in
a contract, it never, it's
never enough. If, if the
person is trying to screw
you, they'll probably figure out
a way to do it.
So you're right. You have
to trust. I think you
have to trust from both
sides even today. You know,
last week I figured out
that there's a Twitter account
attached to hit tail. And
I just didn't know that
I'd forgotten to mention it.
And so I emailed them
and she's just like happy
to help. You know? It's
like, she genuinely wants it
to succeed and she's not
going to try to, I
mean, I could imagine some
sellers saying, well, you didn't
negotiate for that. Well, I'm
going to charge you for
it. It has 500 followers
or whatever. Some people could
feasibly do that, but not,
not with these guys. I
mean, they're just, they're really
open to giving up the
assets that belong to it,
even if they're not written
in the contract. And that's,
that's a good thing to
have Such a challenge to,
to, to know you have
to, you have to go
through, if you do your
math, you have to do
your data. You have to
do your due diligence. But
then at the same time,
you are making a leap
of faith and you have
to go with your gut.
That's right. There is, there's
definitely some gut involved. And
I think it gets easier.
Obviously, my first one was
a lot scarier, but even
now what I find is
that every time after I
close a deal, there's always
some big surprise that I,
that I missed. And it's
always something different, but there's
always something that I wake
up, you know, three weeks
later. And I discover, Oh,
either there wasn't as much
as I thought, or one
of the numbers was wrong
and it wasn't intentionally wrong,
but they had their database,
you know, with retail, as
an example, their customer database
was just, was pretty fuzzy.
And when I went in
and queried some things there
weren't, there wasn't quite as
much, quite as much as
many customers as we had
discussed. And it wasn't, she
was genuinely looking at a
report that showed her ex
and it was less than
X and is because their
data was bad. So that
just is going to happen.
And every time that happens,
I, I totally used that
as motivation to, to grow
the thing, you know, rather
than to be, to be
devastated that I made a
mistake or something like that.
So was, was that, that
was the surprise. That was
the, the quote unquote bad
thing in this instance. Yeah.
It didn't sour me. No.
I mean, it just made
me, it made me, I
mean, let, it's, like I
said, I always know that
there's going to be some
surprise and I was waiting
for the shoe to drop,
frankly, when I found it,
I was like, Oh, okay.
I can get over this.
This is not that bad.
I remember thinking that I've
had worse, you know, I've
had worse where I've acquired
an app and an email,
the former or the current
customers, and then just been
barraged with replies that say
this app hasn't been supportive.
It has a bunch of
bugs. The former owners were
trying to screw us. They
didn't supply, they didn't release
new versions. And I, I
just had no idea and
I should have done that
in due diligence that wasn't
with hit tail that was
with a former acquisition. And
so that one really panicked
me because I started thinking,
wow, I, I kind of
acquired a piece of crap
where I'm going to have
to invest a bunch of
time, not only to fix
the app, but then to
smooth this over with customers
and then move forward. Whereas
with tail, at least the
code was solid and the
customers signed from the downtime,
which I knew I could
fix. They were, they were
happy. So to find out
that there wasn't, maybe wasn't
quite as much revenue, quite
as many customers as I
thought it was, it wasn't
the end of the world.
When, when you're doing a
startup or revitalizing a startup
or putting more energy into
a product that has maybe
plateaued a little bit, it,
it seems like the there's
always a sense of urgency.
There's always this rush. Like
if we don't provide value
in the next three months,
six months, nine months, then
this thing will effectively be
zero value. And it's always
that kind of internet panic,
you know, the internet is
moving on without us. How
do you know when a
product provides lasting value that
has been around and will
be around versus maybe you
just, you know, how do
you, how don't, you know,
that his tail won't be
worthless in five years? That's
a really, that's a really
good question, actually. So most
of the, of the products
that I own are in,
in smaller niches and they're
kind of evergreen in the
sense that I have, I
own invoicing software. It's like
people are always going to
need to invoice. You know,
that's, that's not in the,
in the category of something
that's going to go out
of style. Hidell is probably
the most startup ish thing
that I've acquired where you're
right. It could feasibly, you
know, what, if Google suddenly
changed and decided not to
send any keywords, they've already
made a change where if
you're logged into Google and
you do a search, your
keywords are not sent to
that website anymore. And so
now I can't get those
through hotel. So it actually
reduces the number of keywords
we can track by about
10%. But yeah, what if
suddenly tomorrow Google turned off
the spigot the whole way
and doesn't allow any keywords
hit. Tail would literally be
out of business. There would
be no value in his
tail. So there is a
risk there, and I knew
that upfront, but at the
same time, it it's kind
of a weighted risk, right?
It's like, I don't think
Google is going to do
that. I know that this
tool has run for five
and a half years and
it's not algorithm dependent. It
doesn't depend on Google's algorithm.
It has a code and
infrastructure that, that has run
and that has worked, and
that has continued to provide
value. I've been using it
myself. And so I knew
that I didn't even have
to go ask customers if
this thing worked. I knew
that it provided lasting value.
So to look out five
years, yeah, there is, there
is a chance that that
hit sale could just be
put out of business by,
by something. But it's not
as risky as something like
a, I don't know, maybe
a Pinterest or a, you
know, a Foursquare where it
really does things go in
and out of style, like
you said, in nine months,
Hillsdale is, does have more
of a business case. It
actually provides real value. And
as long as people are
doing marketing online and meeting
topics to talk about and
keyword suggestions, then, you know,
hit tail, we'll have, it'll
have some value. So I
do see it as a
longterm longterm app. Now this
is the thing you do.
Like you, this has become
your thing. Did you know
that you would go in
and acquire a number of
small to medium sized products?
I know you're building a
portfolio, like someone builds a
portfolio of, of, of real
estate. I mean, it sounds
like it, Yeah. I, I,
that is exactly what I've
done. And I didn't really
set out to do that
from the start, but I've
actually started getting contacted now
by people who want to
sell apps and they'll say,
Oh, I have a, an
app written in.net. It does
this, are you interested? I've
heard you buy them. So
I, I guess I had
good luck with the first
few, and that has allowed
me to, I mean, eventually
allowed me to quit consulting,
which freed up a whole
bunch more time for me
to work on code and
to do things that I
enjoy doing, which is, you
know, working on these applications.
And then from there as
new opportunities come by. I
mean, sometimes it's actually a
lot, a lot of times
it's just a lot faster
to buy it than it
is to build it. You
know? And since I have
th there's money coming off
of the apps that I've
already purchased, there's some money
there to, to buy these
new ones. And so while
it may, you know, may
cost, you know, 10 grand,
20 grand to buy one
of these apps, it saves
me and me and, or
a, you know, a developer
who I would hire six
months of time. Then that's
a pretty, it's kind of
a no brainer in terms
of, of the payoff And
for how you want your
portfolio to look. I do
have, I mean, I do
have criteria. I really like
to stay in pretty small
niches. I like for things
to be evergreen, like I
said, meaning that they're going
to be able to serve
customers for years. And it's
not some flash in the
pan thing. I like my
wife's on Pinterest. And I
think Pinterest is going to
be huge, but I will
probably not buy anything dealing
with Pinterest because I just
don't know. It's almost that,
you know, how Warren buffet
doesn't invest in tech stocks.
I like to think of
myself. Like I realized I'm,
I'm surrounded by technology, but
I'm trying not to be
on, on those fast trains
that can either skyrocket kind
of gold rush or they,
they go up and then
crash pretty quick. And so
I really do go after
smaller, more business oriented things
that can be sold based
on value, meaning that they
either save someone money or
they make them money because
I don't know how to
sell. I wouldn't even know
what to do with a
game. You know, as an
example or a social network,
I wouldn't know how to
market that. I wouldn't know
how to get people to
use it. I mean, it
just doesn't make sense. Whereas
I can tell someone, you
know, this will save you
time on your invoicing, or
this will make you money
because more people will pay.
That's a pretty, pretty, you
know, a standard thing. And
all of my products, I
liked your example early on,
when you said that people
will always have to do
invoicing. You know, that's a
very kind of fundamental attitude.
You know, there are things
people will always want to
do it. Well, people always
want to pin things to
their tumbler who knows, right?
I mean, postures got bought
by Twitter a couple of
days ago, which effectively means
postures is going to die.
You know, it's just, it
was a ridiculous thing and
everyone's going to lose, you
know, and if it's one
of those products where they
make no money and they
provide no actual business value,
they simply have users and
users are, then I can
totally understand where you'd want
to stay in a small
niche. I've heard from a
number of people who make
small products that the nichier
that you are the better.
Like, I know a guy
who makes point of sale
software and backend office software
for eye doctors. It's a
super niche and it's like
six, like six people in
this space. Yep. And there's
so many benefits that come
with that. You're a, you're
you're marketing, you're not marketing
against large companies like Microsoft,
who, who really, or Google
or Facebook who have big,
big marketing budgets and who
really know what they're doing.
You're marketing against other really
small companies. And in addition,
if, if you do build
a better product, it actually
can circulate because word of
mouth is really strong in
small niches. And frankly, it's
just, if you are successful,
no one's ever going to
swoop in from Google and
try to attack that niche
and take you out. Whereas,
you know, I do have
friends who launch in the
larger niches and then, Oh,
Google implemented calendar, you know,
and it puts, he go
out of business. I don't
know if you remember them
or friend of mine was
trying to do online before
Google docs. He was doing
online word processing and then
Google bought rightly he was
smoked. Like, you know, it,
it really is a matter
of staying out of the
way of the giants. If
you don't want to, if
you don't want to compete
with them competing with them,
it's certainly not a bad
strategy, but it's just not
something that I enjoy doing.
I do like staying closer
to the code and being
able to have, you know,
real software that provides value
for businesses and, and does
it over the longterm. And
that means that I will,
I will probably always stay
with, with niches, frankly, hit
tail is the least niche
product that I have. I
mean, it does, you know,
it started more towards search
engine optimizers, people who run
your shopping card, websites, eCommerce,
websites, and bloggers. And so
there's a pretty broad niches,
frankly, all my other ones.
Well, thanks for taking the
time to talk to us
today. Robert really appreciate it.
This gives us an insight
into a space that I
don't think everyone's familiar with.
Yeah. I really appreciate you
having me. Thanks. Do you
have a blog or anything?
We can point people to
where they can learn more
about what you do and
some of your plans. Yeah.
I'd blog at a software
by Robert ducks. All right.
Fantastic. This has been another
episode of Hanselminutes and we'll
see you again next week.